ECOLOGIA - known bugs
=====================

1. Random freezing - "Spring frost"
	Description: apparently randomly, Ecologia will freeze up with excessive
			CPU usage. Occurs approx. once every 5-10 runs at various updates.
	Reproducing: not known
	Error source: Most likely related to animal behaviour. Possible:
			fleeing animal cannot move in any direction.
	STATUS: FIXED

2. Flee CENTER 
	Description: occasionally, a herbivore will	attempt to move in the 
			direction CENTER when fleeing from a herbivore
	Reproducing: not known
	Error source: A carnivore ends up on the same tile as the herbivore in
			question (how is that possible?)
			- Answer: the carnivore is actually hunting another herbivore
				and only happens to end up on the tile of this herbivore.
				(The problem lies in the Animal class search algorithm.)
	STATUS: FIXED

2b. Move CENTER
	Description: sometimes, herbivores try to move in the direction CENTER
			even when not fleeing from a carnivore
	Reproducing: happens almost every run
	Error source: a missing check in the grazing method
	STATUS: FIXED

3. JAR file does not write log
	Description: when the exported Ecologia JAR file is started graphically
			by double-clicking it, it will not write any log files even if told
			to do so via the 'Program Configuration' window. There is no problem
			when launching from terminal.
	Reproducing: as described above
	Error source: This isn't a real bug at all - the only problem is that Java
			takes the user's home directory as working directory when launching
			the JAR file graphically. That means the log file ends up there.
	STATUS: DROPPED

4. Tiles in row 0 or column 0 not accessible?
	Description: if you click on a tile in row 0 or column 0, InfoBox will not
			pop up.
	Reproducing: as described above
	Error source: an off-by-one error in Display/InfoBox
	STATUS: FIXED

5. InfoBox confused?
	Description: InfoBox showed that a tile is occupied by a carnivore in the
			tile view, but showed the stats for a herbivore in the animal view.
			The field above does not have any occupant, but the animal view
			showed a carnivore present. (See lost+found/flee_center/log3 line
			1316) Simulation stopped, but without an error message.
	Reproducing: not known
	Error source: caused by the flee CENTER bug
	STATUS: REDUNDANT

6. JAR file can't read help file
	Description: when launched from a packaged JAR file, Ecologia can never
			display its help text. No problem when launching from Eclipse.
	Reproducing: as above
	Error source: something to do with where the help text is stored
	STATUS: FIXED
	
7. Carnivore attacks dead herbivore
	Description: At irregular intervals, Ecologia stops the simulation
			(without changing the "Stop/Start" button). The log shows that
			a carnivore has just killed a herbivore, but then immediately
			proceeds to attack a (the same?) herbivore again.
	Reproducing: not known
	Error source: Probably either in the dead-herbivore-removal-code or in the
			carnivore-attack-code. Why Ecologia stops is still unclear.
	STATUS: FIXED

8. "Ghost bug" - Dead animals not removed from the display
	Description: Occasionally, a dead animal will not be removed from
			Simulator.map, leaving a "ghost" on the display. Sometimes
			Carnivores attempt to attack phantom Herbivores, leading to
			error messages.
	Reproducing: during a longer run, look for carnivores that aren't moving.
	Error source: Caused by an animal "dying twice" in one turn, e.g. during
			movement, or when death by old age and starvation coincide.
	STATUS: FIXED

9. "Wall of death" - carnivores repeatedly drive herbivores extinct
	Description: Carnivores drift towards the right world border early on
			during a run. There they reproduce, eventually forming a line
			across the entire width of the world. This wall then moves
			left, killing all herbivores in its path.
	Reproducing: Noticeable on virtually every run in which carnivores
			don't die out straight away.
	Error source: The search algorithm in the Animal class is too predictable.
			Unfortunately, the algorithm that would fix this bug is a major
			cause of the flee center bug...
	STATUS: FIXED